Hello everyone, welcome back to another episode of the Grand Prixquel podcast where we discuss all things feeder series.
On today's episode, we are going to be doing a review of the Eurocup 3 and F2 races that have just happened this weekend.
Your hosts today are myself, Robin, Peter, Hayden, Evan, and Keenan.
So do we want to start with Eurocup 3?
There's a lot- there's a lot to say.
I think firstly, we need to mention we've had of course Linus Lundqvist announced to race in EC3, which if you don't know who he is, he's a former IndyCar driver.
He raced with Chip Ganassi Racing and in 2024 he took two podiums and he won a lot of series back in America, Indy Lights, Formula Regional Americas and also British F3, which he won with the same team he's now with in EC3, I mean.
I think this just shows IndyCar is a feeder series to Eurocup 3.
Exactly.
Just get all the IndyCar drivers here.
Alex Palou should race for Palou Motorsport.
I mean, he owns them and given how Palou Motorsport did this weekend, maybe James Egozi is secretly Alex Palou or something like.
To add on to that, actually, because I know everyone came into the season thinking, you know, it's gonna be another season of MP-Campos dominance.
But like, clearly that was not the case.
I mean, we saw Palou up there with Egozi getting three podiums in three races.
And we saw Hitech up there with Al Azhari getting pole and also a win.
I mean, apparently this is the first weekend in EC3 history where there's been no race won by MP or Campos.
Well, I'm very bad at remembering which drivers are on which teams.
I know Powell is on Campos, but who are Powell's teammates?
Yeah, so Powell's teammates at Campos have not had a very good weekend and it's kind of like- I've been underwhelmed massively by Campos as a whole.
I mean Powell was the only one who had a good weekend.
I mean Strauven was just massively struggling the entire time, and like everyone obviously rates Strauven looking at his Spanish F4 championship, and I also thought he would be doing really well but this weekend he has not been up there and,
same with like, Heuzenroeder, for example.
He had issues during qualifying that put him in P30 for races one and two, race two being the sprint race.
And he did eventually get a decent position compared to the P30 in qualifying two.
I think he started race three in P15.
And he did make some really
Good overtakes throughout the weekend.
Like I think in his Instagram post he said he had like 24 overtakes over the weekend, which is kind of crazy.
It really all is down to qualifying.
I think next time out he just needs to get that, but still, I mean, it wasn't entirely-
You’d expect more from a Spanish F4 champion.
Yeah, and the GB3 runner-up from last season.
And Tarnvanichkul was kind of, he was a bit...
He was there, I guess.
Nothing overly impressive.
He was on the podium for the sprint, but that's because the sprint was a reverse grid race.
Yeah, I think this leads us nicely into talking about race one itself, so of course we had, with James Egozi winning, Rene Lammers in second, and a certain Alex Powell in third.
I mean, the top five, there was very much no surprise, because we had Ean Eyckmans coming in second and Gianmarco Pradel coming in fifth.
So these are very much the five drivers we'd expect to be up there.
But surprisingly, the polesitter Al Azhari stalled off the start, but he recovered really well from that.
Yeah.
That scared me so bad.
Every single time, well especially considering he was at the very front of the field, every single time a car stalls like in the, anywhere really, but any kind of car stalls, but especially in the front like that, I always get flashbacks.
To like last year, Italian F4,
Oh my god, the Imola crash, yeah.
Imola.
I literally, so I, I stopped breathing for a second, but thankfully no one made contact with Al Azhari, but...
Yeah, a great job from all the drivers.
Did a great job avoiding him, and then he, I think he dropped back to around P27, P28.
Not entirely sure, because the timing tower only shows the top 25.
He was out of that top 25, and then he recovered all the way to P7, recovery drive and,
It really leaves questions, if he didn’t stall, where could he have- I think he’d have probably easily won, as we saw in race 3, he had a hand over Egozi.
I think he could’ve won for sure. I think it would have been a fight with him, I think it would have been a fight with him and Egozi.
Yeah, similar to race three.
Yeah.
Egozi was, I mean, Egozi kind of like, you know, he took the lead and he, like, he controlled the race once he took the lead, got him.
And I guess, you know, maybe he heard my comments on the preview ep.
He took it personally.
He’s not a winter series merchant, I guess.
I love Egozi.
I love his race craft.
He was so fun to watch in all three races.
The fights at the front in the races were really good, like race 1 and race 3 especially.
The fight between Egozi, Lammers and Powell scared the hell out of me because I was on the edge of my seat being scared that Alex would crash.
Because for whatever reason, he just cannot behave himself around Rene Lammers, and this is more of a race three thing, because he got penalized in race three for, um, for overtaking Lammers off track.
And I remember the infamous Jarama penalty was because he overtook Lammers before the safety car line.
Can he behave himself around Rene Lammers, please?
This is like Victor Martins and Alex Dunne, like,
Yeah, but, I mean, Lammers also had a good weekend.
I mean, he was unfortunate to lose the lead in race one, but, you know, P2 is still really good, especially, you know, rookie win.
I would say I was a bit underwhelmed by Linus Lundqvist.
As I mentioned before, I was expecting quite a bit.
Okay, maybe he's not in the best team, but, I mean, his performance was similar to teammate Bart Harrison.
Yeah, he's not entirely down to the team.
And it's not like... it's not like... Bart Harrison is, um...
a bright talent or anything.
And we know how, I mean, maybe this is all a bit last minute, maybe we'll see more in the upcoming rounds, if he is even doing more upcoming rounds, cause… wasn't he just doing the first round?
It's not entirely been announced, so we don't really know.
I would like to see him cook, but I also don’t want to...
His reputation to get ruined.
Going back to Powell...
Going back to Powell, um...
It's always Alex Powell.
Sanson mentioned,
how he thinks that he's confident that Powell will be picked up by an Academy and I'm praying, because we know that, I think it was Audi that was there for sure or- no, that was at FREC.
I think um, but Audi has been scouting in general and so has Cadillac, I still I'm hoping I'm praying I'm praying that Alex gets picked up
by either Audi or Cadillac.
Haas doesn't have a junior team really, other than Kaylee Countryman in F1 Academy, but I don't think she really is technically part of the Academy. But they need to make the Academy, the Haas junior team, just for Alex Powell.
You know, America, woo!
Yeah, get the American on there.
Or they should, they should, they should put Egozi on there too.
They should just have an all-American lineup.
Just Floridians.
Just the Floridians.
You have Sebastian Wheldon and James Egozi and Alex Powell.
What other Floridians are there?
You know, get Logan Sargeant in there somehow.
I don't know.
Figure it out.
I think Race 2 was just as enjoyable as Race 1.
I mean, it was really nice to see El Feghali winning.
I mean, this was the first time we actually heard the Lebanese anthem played on the top step of an FIA accredited podium.
I got really emotional, actually.
It's always nice to see these smaller nations doing well.
Because often, you know, motorsports is very much dominated by, you know, European countries.
But it was nice to see that.
I mean, I always love to see smaller countries doing well.
And, you know, of course, you know, reverse grid race, but he still controlled it entirely.
I love his racecraft as well, even when he's in the middle of the field.
I love watching him race, because I think he has amazing racecraft.
So to see him at the front too, especially.
It was very fun to watch, and the win was more than deserved.
I mean, we also saw Thomas Strauven getting some points, which is nice to see, because he's obviously struggled quite a bit this weekend.
Is it a thing with Campos?
I feel like Campos just... maybe Alex Powell cursed them somehow.
I don't know what's going on over there.
He brought his luck.
He gave his bad luck to the entire rest of the team.
Yeah.
He gave his bad luck.
He got lucky-ish.
He did well, even with the penalties, but I guess he got lucky-ish, so his bad luck just got transferred to the rest of the team.
It rubbed off on the rest of them.
Another thing about race 2, Eyckmans just spinning out after the checkered flag.
I don't even know what happened.
I mean, for him, still finished in P4, despite, like, you know, the spinning out at the end, which is kind of the funniest thing ever.
I mean, it's a perfect time to do it, if you think about it, because-
I mean, you don't lose anything.
You could just pretend they're doughnuts.
I mean, maybe he just didn't want to do the cool down lap.
He just thought, missed out on the podium.
He was like, you know what, I've had enough.
I'm just going to leave it here.
Maybe that was his thinking.
And I mean, Egozi again, great.
I mean, he started, you know, towards the lower half of the top 10 because of the reverse grid.
And he still recovered to P3, I mean.
He climbed up, he climbed positions pretty quickly.
Powell had a bit of a bad start, but then he started in P9, because he qualified P4, was it?
For the first race, so he started in P9, and then he had a bad start, and then went back up to P9 at the end.
Also, Al Azhari made good positions, but not as many as Egozi.
For all of the front contenders, the main thing in these sprint races really comes down to how many positions can you make up?
And I mean, Egozi is certainly the one doing their best at the moment, but we saw in Race 1 how good Al Azhari could be at making up positions as well.
I also want to point out in both race 1 and race 2, the other Hitechs were fighting with each other, nearly crashing into each other, which was quite funny and... And as Jake Sanson says, rule number one of motorsport is that you don't crash into your teammate.
Don't tell Alex Dunne that.
I think someone needs to remind Alex Dunne after Australia.
And the Premas in Australia, both of those ignored that advice.
But luckily for Al Azhari, I mean, in race 1, even Al Azhari nearly got tangled in it, but I think, you know, he's very much kind of their main guy, so maybe they were like, oh crap, we can't go into him.
This fight between Egozi and Al Azhari, I feel like lead us into race 3, because race 3 was peak.
That was the most entertaining, like, oh my gosh.
Watching them at the front, that was just so good.
I was, like, on the edge of my seat.
Like, it was the whole time, too.
It wasn't just like, it was the whole race.
And oh, that was so, that was incredible.
Dude, I was waiting for them to crash into each other so that Powell gets the win, but then he got penalised anyways.
I feel really bad for Pradel, because he was P2, and then he just broke down under the safety car.
He started on pole, lost that on the lead, but he was still a P2, and then under safety car, his car just was like, I've had enough.
And he'd had, and he’d been having a solid weekend, he'd taken P5 in the earlier two races.
So like, he was having a solid weekend, and for it to end like that is just a bit unfortunate, because
It was a really good weekend otherwise.
But then again, it gave us that amazing, Egozi-Al Azhari fight.
I will say, I mean, with Al Azhari first overtake, questionable track limits, it felt like.
He's kind of being off the track.
Can I complain about that, actually?
Because Alex Powell got a penalty for overtaking off track, but then Al Azhari doesn't.
And I'm kind of mad about that because I didn't even see where Alex overtook off track.
Like, when did that happen?
And why did Al Azhari also not get a penalty for it?
The stewards hate the Floridians cause giving Al Azhari a penalty when Egozi wins, aka the Floridian.
This is like the anti-Flordian championship or something.
It is quite funny how initially his penalty was 10 seconds, then it got changed to 5 seconds.
Yeah, they were like, okay, maybe we won't.
And I think, you know, so far we've got kind of five key contenders, basically, which are kind of reflected in the top five of the championship.
Which if you can't tell, Egozi, Al Azhari, Eyckmans, Lammers and Powell.
The thing is with Powell is that he already, before race 3, he got a penalty, a 5 place grid penalty, for not slowing under yellow flags in qualifying.
So when he was supposed to start P3 and could have possibly been in the fight for the lead in the race, he started P8, he fought his way up to P3, got a penalty for overtaking off track and then ended up P5.
He just needs to behave himself.
Like I said earlier, behave yourself around Rene Lammers, please.
I feel like between the fighting at the front and Alex, like, kind of cooking, um, that's just, yeah, this race is just so fun.
Like, Alex, like, the fact, okay.
I just, he always, he gives us like, he gets so close, so many times.
He gets so close, and then something happens.
He got the penalty, he got the flag, or the, um, the penalty for not slowing under the yellows or whatever.
I feel like, every time he gets close to a win or a podium or just fighting for the lead in general, it's like he could never have it because there's always something.
Yeah, like if he hadn't got that penalty, he would be P3 in the championship ahead of Eyckmans and Lammers.
But because of the penalty, he is now P5 in the championship.
I mean, to be fair though, it is really close between those three, I mean, Eyckmans on 34 points, Lammers on 30, Powell on 27 is very, things are very much going to change.
I think we have a really close fight for the rookie championship.
Oh, easily.
And I think even at the front cause, I mean, if I'm honest, Egozi does have a decent lead of 13 points after the first round.
But I mean, that's not entirely, you know, it's not like he's clear out front.
And we've seen, kind of a clear top five across all three races.
And I expect the three rookies to get better and better.
They actually get more experience in these cars.
Well, and will Campos lock in?
Like, they were really bad this round, but will they lock in and at least improve a little bit?
Yeah, they’re P4 in the team's standings.
Which, what the hell?
What are you doing, Campos?
Like, I don't know, can you lock in, please?
This is because we all predicted them for team's champions.
We need to stop doing that.
We have an incredible jinx.
It's, it's... Oh my god.
Our jinxing powers are like crazy.
We need to start reverse psychology.
Reverse psychology, our predictions.
We said Egozi and Al Azhari wouldn’t really replicate their performances.
And now look who's P1 and P2.
Egozi and Al Azhari.
I mean, Palou Motorsport is in P2, I'd say that it’s Alex Palou's fault.
He just can't stop winning wherever he is, or whatever he's involved in.
He's had enough of dominating in IndyCar, he's just come to EC3 for him to dominate that.
And then Hitech are 6 points ahead of Campos.
Um, cause Campos is mostly carried by Powell.
Hitech and Palou are very much being carried by Hitech and Al Azhari though as well.
And then MPs MP, they have Lammers and Eyckmans, so.
Yeah, but I mean, I think this sets up a really exciting championship.
The next round is going to be about a month's time and Portimao, on the 5th to 7th of June with no sprint race this round.
It’s  just going to be the two rac- two feature races.
I'm really sad that we have to wait a month for, because this racing is so good and we have to wait a month until next round and then there's another month until the round after I'm pretty sure.
I mean, as I said earlier, I expect the rookies to just get better and better, so I'm expecting more of Eyckmans, Lammers and Powell fighting for podiums and wins.
And I really hope to see Strauven up there, but...
Let's see how well it goes.
I'm sorry if I jinxed them.
What I notice about this series that I really like is that I feel like in this series more than in some other series is that the rookies perform really well.
They tend to perform really well as compared to some other series where the rookies are usually towards like, except for like maybe a select few.
But I feel like in this series, and maybe it's just because we have really good rookies this year,
like they're fighting for like wins and for championships.
I think a part of it is that, for example, in FREC, anyone who did the winter series is not considered a rookie.
So technically, if you think about it, everyone who's fighting at the front of the field in FREC should be considered rookies other than, you know, like the obvious Ninovic and Al-Dhaheri.
But then here, anyone who competed in the winter series is still a rookie because the regulations say that you must have competed in less than nine, like,
races on the same level as Eurocup 3 before January 1st, 2026.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, like Eyckmans, for example, did eight FREC Races last year, but because he didn't do nine or more, he’s still considered a rookie.
And it's like same with Powell.
Powell did Formula Regional Middle East and the Eurocup 3 Winter series, and yet he's still a rookie because he didn't do those before January 1st.
So I guess it just comes down to who's considered a rookie and who's not.
Like, it depends on each series' regulations.
In terms of predictions, I'm not going to say anything about Alex Powell because I do not want to jinx him.
I think the fight between Egozi and Al Azhari should continue on because I mean you saw them in race 3 that was insane.
And I really underestimated them going into the series.
And I think if we get more racing like we did in Race 3, especially because Paul Ricard isn't really known as a circuit where there's a lot of overtakes.
So if we saw this on Paul Ricard, imagine a circuit where you could actually overtake on, like for example, Monza.
Portimao is going to be peak.
And Portimao is a really nice flowing track as well.
I'm so excited.
Yeah, it's gonna be great.
And I can't wait to see more fights, hopefully involving more drivers than just Egozi and Al Azhari.
I think I'd really like to see some more on track fights between the three rookies, like the three leading rookies, though I need Alex Powell to stay away from Rene Lammers.
Yeah, I also think, I also am thinking that the fight is going to be between Egozi and Al Azhari.
I really hope that Powell is in the fight, but we'll see if Campos, we’ll see if Alex and Campos both lock in.
But I do think it'll be the two that are fighting.
I do hope that we get more of El Feghali like fighting for wins throughout the rest of the season because I love watching him win.
Like I said earlier, I got really emotional because it's not very often that you see Arab drivers winning races outside of, like, you know, the Emiratis.
So I got really emotional over that and I'm waiting for the day we get to see an Egyptian driver in single-seaters and winning races.
I think we can nicely move on to, you know, another certain feeder series, which, unfortunately, I mean, I don't enjoy as much as EC3, but, you know, of course it's Formula 2.
Everybody's favourite Feeder series.
I mean, we mentioned a bit of F2 during the Eurocup 3 stuff when we were talking about Alex Dunne.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, Alex Dunne, well, you hear my thoughts in a bit.
But, I mean, it was interesting, because of course we had the Jeddah and Bahrain rounds cancelled.
So it got replaced with Miami and Canada, which we're going to see.
I think qualifying showed how unserious F2 is.
Yeah I mean I knew going into it that it was going to be a crazy weekend because I mean first time ever in the US, first time ever in North America and I mean I was excited but I knew that it was going to be kind of insane but I don't think I was prepared for quite how crazy it was.
I mean, what do you mean, Maini got Pole?
I mean, partly down to, I guess, Stenshorne got Mechachrome’d, he died, and then Qualifying finished a bit early, so I don't think everybody got to do their final lap.
Maini got Pole.
He stalled in the sprint race, and then, I don't know, what even happened to him in the feature race?
He managed to get fifth, actually.
He what?
He was fifth.
Really?
Yeah, in the feature race.
I guess I just did not see him there, I guess.
I mean, the sprint race, both races were quite fun.
I mean, I want to give props to Nikola Tsolov because he missed a lot of practice, Campos just have an issue.
Qualified P10 despite having very limited practice on this brand new circuit for F2.
Qualified in P10 so he gets the reverse grid pole.
And then he just very much, kind of, he had a good battle with Van Hoepen for the lead, but I mean, they were still fighting for a bit, but I really enjoyed his racecraft, I think, and he's very much been the best driver in F2, I think, so far this year.
Yeah, I love watching Tsolov.
at the front.
I think, you know, we like to, we like to complain about F2 a lot, but I do think we get some really, really good battles in both of the races, especially at the end, like the last, like the feature race was peak.
If that's jump time, you feel like the drivers you should be up there aren't always up there.
I mean, Kush Maini on pole, really says everything.
I think, because, I mean, we've seen the last few years especially, you know, you know how good, I mean, I'm never forgetting 2024, you know, you know how good Bearman and Antonelli are, and they're not at the front.
Victor Martins, we know how good it is, and he’s not been at the front.
That's my main issue with F2, you don't always see these drivers.
I mean, we’ve seen them with, you know,
Colton Herta is almost kind of struggling. I mean it is kind of expected I think because you know Indycar is so different at least, the type of car is so different different tires as well he needs to get used to it, but he's still a multiple Indycar winner
I think new car, new track, new everything for Colton has really, I guess, hurt his chances, I’d say, to do anything pretty good.
I mean, he did manage to get to the top 10 in the feature race, which I mean, that's an achievement in itself, if we think about it, from brand new to F2, who has driven Indycar their entire life, essentially.
I think for him, this is basically getting the experience on the F1 tracks, and it's kind of at a lower stage, and it's getting used to racing in the European circuit again.
Okay, it's actually not in Europe, but it is a primarily European-based series.
I’m just gonna say, it's very different to Indycar, just getting him used to it, and also maybe getting some, you know, super license points along the way, and he is, you know, it's not like it's a complete disaster, as he said, top 10 in the feature race, he's getting some points.
Yeah, I think the main thing with Colton Herta is, especially this year, this is just gonna be a practice year for him.
Make sure that, yeah, he gets everything down pat.
Like, I think going into it, going into the year, his main thing was trying to understand how the tires worked and trying to make sure that that's something he knew how to do before he even, like, thought about getting into F1, which was very smart of him.
But, yeah, the important thing is that he understood the tires and the tracks this year.
But next year, I reckon that's when he's going to really start trying to get into, you know, the title race for F2.
Because I'm pretty sure...
I can't remember if this is correct or not, but I'm pretty sure that it's...Bottas and Perez both have, like, two-year deals or multi-year deals.
So that's a good chance what Cadillac and Colton are targeting.
And given how Cadillac are doing at the moment.
I don't think I'd want to join them at the moment as well.
I mean, P20, how glamorous to be P20.
It's better than Aston Martin.
I mean, they're two cheeks of the same ***.
But at least, at least the Cadillac isn't trying to kill their drivers with their- whatever death machine they have.
But I mean, I don't think I want to be with either.
I mean, for Herta.
Yeah.
But for Cadillac's sake, they want to keep the adult lineup.
They want to make sure that they keep their experience in F1 lineup, so that they can actually attempt to fix this when they get their rookie in.
It's a little bit unction.
I mean, even in the beginning, you look at Hitech in F2, Colton Herta and Miyata, who are both mid-20s.
And they're both some of the most talented people on the actual grid, and yet.
But unfortunately, they don't get to always show it.
I mean, Miyata has been improving.
I mean, this year it finally feels like, you know, something has clicked finally.
You know, he's a Super Formula and a Super GT champion.
I mean, we all know how good he is.
And he's finally getting regular points.
I mean, a top 10 again in the feature race, not in the points in the sprint, but in the feature race.
I feel like, you know, there is something I want to talk about in the feature race, which is, you know, a certain someone crashing out again.
Alexander Dunne?
Alexander Dunne time?
We knew this was coming.
Who would have thought?
I mean, it has to be talked about.
I mean, five of the last six feature races he has crashed.
I mean, he's been fast, but he can't keep on crashing like this and throwing away points.
And the way it happened to Miami was honestly so funny.
Kind of half spun out, and he's on the, you know, he's on like the runoff.
He goes back in, and as he's going back onto the track, he just kind of hits the barriers.
Like, it's like slow motion almost.
Yeah, he's fast, but sometimes he gets hit with a bit of brain failure.
But, you know, I think the most important thing is the fact that he does have that innate speed.
Like, where would he be without it?
I mean, the last three, okay, to be fair to him, Baku and Monza last year weren't his fault, but the last three feature races, Abu Dhabi, Australia, and Miami, those have all been entirely on him, and he's just throwing great points.
Yeah, I kind of see him sort of similar to how Martins sort of was, you know, like, not like in terms of like driving, but in terms of just like prospects.
because they're both really quick drivers, but in the case of Martins, he just never really got that chance.
And I feel like it's going to be a similar thing when it comes to Dunne.
But Dunne, I mean, I think that's partly down to him, just not being able to keep out of the barriers.
I mean, like last year, we were all saying, this is his age.
Even in the last episode, in Australia we said, he's not, even now, he's still not sorted his innate yearn for the barrier out.
It's like there's some sort of attraction there.
Just can't get enough, I mean.
I mean, I really hope maybe when he returns to the more regular circuits, he gets this under control because he's been fast.
He could be a championship contender if he just wasn't in the barriers all the time.
Yeah, he hasn't won a race since Imola last year.
I mean, other than Dunne, I mean, I feel bad for Bilinski because, you know, Mechachrome got struck again.
We love Formula 2 and Mecachrome.
It was, it was Dino, it was his teammate Dino in Australia and now it, it got Roman in Miami.
It even got Stenshorne during qualifying so that’s...
I mean, if there’s somebody getting Mecachromed, it's basically a staple of F2 at this point.
It's one reason why, like I like F2, but it's the reason why I don't like it as much as some other series is literally because of the Mecachrome engine and how we talked about how the drivers that are good and we know are good and should be at the front aren't.
I mean, we saw what's like, you know, Tsolov getting taken out by Tasanapol Inthraphuvasak which I think really sums F2 up quite nicely.
Well, and I just feel like in the feature, it's like every, oh my gosh, everyone was off because we had, well, oh my God, don't even, don't even get me started on Ollie Goethe.
I literally,
Crashed out so hard.
Anyway- so did he.
Um, but we had, he had a disaster class in the sprint race.
He was P3 and he had a horrible start and just like kept dropping.
It was, it was a disaster.
That was so bad.
And then in the feature race, he, um, mostly cause it was cause of the rain, really the fact that they, the fact that they,
had a standing start.
What were they thinking?
Anyways, so he spun out, but where he like got it, he was in the wall.
But we had it because in the sprint race, how many people were out?
Let's see.
I think it was only three to four people.
It was not as bad as the feature race.
The sprint race was... Yeah, I was surprised that they did a standing start.
The spray was really bad.
I mean, I thought they may red flag it or something.
I mean, it was really tough condition as the drivers had quite a-.
I was kind of questioning why they were racing in this almost because you could barely see anything.
Like, behind the safety car, you could not see.
And then, uh, was it, oh my goodness, who was it that went out on slicks for like a lap?
And then it was, was it Van Hoepen?
It was John Bennett who went out on slicks for like a lap.
Cause John Bennett was like P3 at one point.
I was like, what, what is this?
What's going on?
Uh, but yeah, he goes out on slicks and I'm like, okay, thank you for being the guinea pig and testing them out.
But dude, it was so bad that you could tell immediately that it wasn’t going to work
Didn't he spin out on that lap on slicks?
Yeah, it was like yellow flag conditions or something like that as well.
Also, speaking of spinning out, can we talk about Cian Shields?
We can always talk about Cian Shields.
He spun, was it at turn 8? Did another lap, and then spun at turn 8 again.
And we couldn't even tell if they were separate spins or not.
I don’t even know what to say.
This is why he's the goat of F2.
We love Cian Shields.
Put Cian Shields in F1 right now.
We have to see it.
Cian Shields Aston Martin 2027.
I see the vision.
Nando Retires, Cian Shields in.
Better results than Stroll.
Cian Shields F1 World Champion 2027.
Yeah, I'm looking at his Wikipedia page right now and looking at the Formula 3 and Formula 2 sections.
I'm seeing exclusively blue and purple right now.
Best result of P11 in Imola last year.
And that's including his time in F3 as well.
He's just an amazing driver, guys.
He's just, he's, um, sandbagging.
He's been sandbagging for the past, like, I don't know, three years.
Obviously.
Just to give other people a chance.
And as well as that, like, if you look at, if you look at Cian Shield's F2 section, he does have one race that's not blue or purple.
And that's, uh, the Melbourne feature race, which was, uh, which is now in white because it was canceled.
But, you know, honestly, probably one of his better results if we're talking realistically.
He was sandbagging his whole career so that when he makes it to F1, he surprises everyone by just cooking everyone.
That's his strategy.
Well, he's doing good so far.
Looking promising for him, I think.
And then in the feature race, we have, was it the feature race?
With the, with Maini and Camara not going through the pit lane all when they're supposed to.
I thought,
I really thought that they were going to get penalties for that.
And they only got warnings and I'm honestly shocked that they only got let off with warnings, but I don't know.
I feel like there should have been more with that.
Yeah, I think that was just unfortunate.
I think this timing came out too late.
I mean, the marshall should be doing more than, you know, have signs clearly saying, go into pitlane.
But, I mean, normally, I feel, I don't know, that is dangerous going on, especially in those conditions.
I think it's just, there was some communication error, maybe that's why they weren't penalised, but still, it's a safety issue.
I mean, normally, they should take a really hard line on safety.
I'm not sure, because...
Typically, if there's an error that isn't the driver's fault, they do still penalize that.
We see that in like, if someone fails to take a 10 second penalty, because someone touched the car accidentally, they still send them back in.
So, I'm not too sure.
And everybody else was, and I mean, they still, I mean,  Camara finished in what, second? and Maini in fifth, it's not like they were.
It impacted the podium place, but it still, it impacted the podium places.
Yeah, well, and I think, I think I, I think I would have been more mad.
If Camara because at one point like because with the fight at the end of the feature race — peak, by the way — but as Camara was P1 and then was P2.
So I think if I, if he would have finished in P1 or P2.
Um, and still only got the warning.
I think I would have been more upset, but, um, I guess I could live with the warning and he's P3 anyway.
So it's like, okay.
And another thing about the, like the final battle at the end, one thing that I haven't really thought about that is really only hitting me now is the fact that, yeah, this really was Gabriele Mini's first win in F2.
Yeah well and I was scared I thought they were gonna take it away from him because or like for a second because there was um because I saw that you was summoned to the stewards and I'm like oh no can you imagine if he loses his first win
Because of the penalty, but he didn't, he didn't get, I think it was no further action.
So I'm really glad that nothing happened with that.
But yeah, I, I never thought about that either.
I thought, oh, so this first win.
And I think to have it in Miami was really cool.
Um, just like Lando Norris, I guess.
Yeah, exactly.
And I, obviously, as a Dino fan, I was so, so thrilled about his podium.
I was kind of greedy for a little bit, and I really wanted him to get the win, but I'm so happy with P2, especially considering what happened after Australia, him getting Mechachrome’d.
And even in Australia, he was right up there at the front here, I mean, he...
I, yeah, I was so...
He literally could have won the race in Australia
If it wasn't for the stupid Mecachrome engine.
So this was redemption, and I'm very, very happy with P2.
I think now looking to the Championship, I don't know if anybody has anything more to say on the actual races themselves.
We can look towards the standings.
Uh, no, I...
I'm... Like, the fact that Van Hoepen is...
Oh, I guess now he's P4, but he was P3 in the driver's standings.
I never could have predicted Van Hoepen that high up at the driver's settings.
It's nice to see Tsolov leading it.
As I said earlier, I think he's very much been the best driver across the two races.
And despite him being taken out in the feature race in Miami, he's still leading.
I mean, he's only really top three, I mean, only really associate-, separated by one point.
But as more down to Tsolov being taken out.
He'd have been bound to make a position to get some points in the feature race.
And Miyata P5, I mean.
Is this finally the year for him?
I believe so.
If there's ever a year, he's not going to spend a, what, fourth year in F2.
At some point, he's going to call it quits.
Four years in F2, you're getting too close to Verschoor.
with four years.
Yeah, the trumpets are getting louder, pal.
It's just, F2 is just like so fugazi sometimes.
Van Hopen, P4, does not actually feel real.
And I mean, someone like Alex Dunne, if you've counted where he was, where he got, where he crashed out, he probably would have been up there, but unfortunately he loves the barriers too much.
Well, and if Dino didn't get Mecachromed in Australia, he for sure would be, well, because I think now he's P8, I think.
Seven.
P7.
If, if he, oh my God, I, I just, I'm getting so, I'm getting so upset just thinking about it.
If he didn't get Mecachromed in Australia, he would probably be, I guess I can't do the math right now.
Where was he running in Australia?
Uh, P1, I think.
Oh, well, if he was P1, then that means he would be on 46 points, which would put him 11 points clear of Tsolov.
Oh my God, don't even... We need to remember Tsolov also got taken out, so... Yeah, let’s say he gets like a P8.
I think Beganovic and Tsolov have been the best drivers very much in both races so far, and...
I mean, our next round, Canada is always going to be interesting, because once again: brand new showcase, which is always fun to see, and I reckon, and I think Tsolov is going to continue to impress.
He's been really fun to watch.
There's no reason to say he wouldn't.
There's no evidence to suggest he's going to get slower any time now.
And you know, maybe Beganovic will be up there as well, I think Herta is going to do well as well. I think things are beginning to come together for him, I think he’s gonna do well.
Yeah, I'm hoping that Beganovic is up there.
I'm honestly surprised Invicta isn't cooking as much.
They're not cooking as much as I thought they would be.
Obviously.
Don’t jinx it
I know.
I don't want to jinx anything.
I'm hoping it stays this way.
But Invicta is surprisingly not as... Obviously they're still doing pretty well, but not as much as I thought they would be.
They're not as dominant as they have been.
Thank you.
Thank you, Nikola Tsolov.
Although I will say it is a bit surprising that Duerksen has managed to score in all races so far, him and Mini, I mean, Maini–the Italian one.
For me, I hope, I really hope Alex Dunne can like, you know, stop kissing the barriers.
I think both Alexes, Alex Dunne and Alex Powell need to learn to behave themselves.
I said this about Powell earlier, but Dunne as well, please stop kissing the barriers.
I think Alex Ninovic needs to share some of his good luck with Powell and Dunne.
Well, no, because he got penalized from two podiums.
He needs to behave too.
Sure, but Ninovic has way better luck compared to the other two.
I think it's just the Alex curse, they’re all cursed.
Every single Alex out there needs to learn to behave.
Do not name your kid Alex if you plan on putting them in motorsport.
Do not name your kid Alex.
We need to prevent our fellow host Alex from ever getting into a race car, I think.
I think I propose an Alex race where they get all of the Alex's in motorsport, and they put them in the same car and just let them go, go ham.
Alex Powell domination, trust.
Yeah, that or Palou?
I want to see all the Alex's in one race.
And then they have a therapy session afterwards, because I think they all need it.
I don't know, Alex Palou's doing pretty well for himself, I'd say.
But that's just my theory, you know?
Yeah, he's taking all the Alex luck.
He has, even from Rossi.
But yeah, so Alex Dunne needs to lock in a bit, stop kissing the barriers.
And if he does do that, then hopefully he'll be higher up.
I want a podium next, like in Montreal, which is in, what, three weeks?
Is it?
Yeah.
So I want a podium at least, if not a race win.
You're asking quite a bit, man with the best finish of P6.
Okay, but like he won races last season, okay?
He can do it.
He needs to stop kissing walls.
I feel that's all he can do.
Victor Martins is no longer on the grid.
The only thing he has now is the walls.
I was gonna make that joke.
Too bad!
Can we even keep that joke in the episode?
Yeah, I'm keeping that in.
It's fine, don't worry about it.
No, but with Martins, I reckon Alex Dunne crashed into him.
And then as a result, it sort of like transferred the bad luck out of Martins and into Dunne.
And now Dunne is gonna live through the rest of Martins' F2 career, I guess.
Just being quick with bad luck.
I think Alex is one big social experiment.
Everyone talks about the Mercedes Cloning Factory, but I think the real story here is whatever is going on with Alex.
I think it's just one big social experiment.
The Alex Cloning Factory.
It's one big social experiment.
I believe it.
So that's it for today's episode of the Grand Prixquel podcast.
Hope you guys enjoyed listening.
If you have any comments, any further predictions for the rest of the seasons for both F2 and Eurocup 3, feel free to let us know.
Make sure to follow us on all our socials at @grandprixquel on TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter.
Next episode will be a review of the upcoming Italian F4 and British F4 weekends.
So make sure to tune in for those.
Thank you for listening.